Java is a class-based, object-oriented programming language developed in the 1990s. It is very well suited for cross-platform development, while the C# tools and development environment are better suited for Windows development, although alternative uses are possible. Java is a standard for enterprise software, web-based content, games and mobile apps, as well as the Android operating system. Java and C# are very similar language, both being class-based and object-oriented, and with garbage collection. Java has some limitations in comparison to C#, such as no support for unsigned integers, high rpecision decimals, complex number, and value types. 

C++ is a language with object-oriented programming features, also providing options for low-level memory manipulation, originally designed to enhance the C language. While C++ has several options for memory management, C# has garbage collection, making it easier to prevent memory leaks. C++ also gives you enormous control over the object properties, while C# was developed for the .NET environment and a lot of control is lost, but programming is, on the other hand, somewhat easier. C++ powers major software like Firefox, Winamp and Adobe programs. It is largely used for system programming,  but also desktop applications, high-performance server and client applications and video games.

JavaScript is a client and server-side scripting language (as opposed to Java and C#, which are OOP programming and not scripting languages) developed by Netscape that derives much of its syntax from C and C++. It is a concurrent, class-based, object-oriented language that is specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible, meaning that it lets application developers "write once, run anywhere." Unlike C# and Java, JavaScript does not create applets or stand-alone applications. In its most common form, JavaScript resides inside HTML documents, and can provide levels of interactivity to web pages that are not achievable with simple HTML. It can be used across multiple web browsers and is considered essential for developing interactive or animated web functions. It is also used in game development and writing desktop applications. JavaScript interpreters are embedded in Google's Chrome extensions, Apple's Safari extensions, Adobe Acrobat and Reader, and Adobe's Creative Suite, among others.

Ruby is a relatively newly popularized dynamic, object-oriented scripting language for developing websites and mobile apps (although it was developed in the mid-1990s). It is designed to be simple and easy to write, so it is user-friendly and easy to learn for beginners, with a generally simple and understandable syntax - for example, Ruby uses fewer layers than C# and integrates third-party libraries better. Reusing code is greatly facilitated by very comprehensive online libraries. But one drawback is that it ismuch slower. Ruby powers the Ruby on Rails (or Rails) framework, which is used on Scribd, GitHub, Groupon and Shopify. 

Structured Query Language (SQL) is a special-purpose language for managing data in relational database management systems - unlike C#, which has numerous purposes. It is most commonly used for its "Query" function, which searches informational databases. SQL consists of a data definition language and a data manipulation language. The scope of SQL includes data insert, query, update and delete, schema creation and modification, and data access control. Although SQL is often described as a declarative language (4GL), it also includes procedural elements.


